.TH SNAPPEROO 1

.SH NAME
snapperoo \- A small, bare essentials utility for taking Btrfs snapshots.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snapperoo
[\fIschedule\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snapperoo
is designed to be the bare minimum required to automatically take Btrfs
snapshots and delete old snapshots according to a retention policy.
.PP
The volumes to be snapshotted, destination and retention settings are
configured via a JSON file, for details of this see
.BR snapperoo (5).

.SH INVOCATION

.B snapperoo
is designed to be invoked according to the desired schedules, with the current
schedule being passed as a single argument.

The scheduling of the snapshots is the responsibility of the job scheduler,
.B snapperoo
simply takes snapshots when requested and removes any that are deemed to be
old.
This also allows
.B snapperoo
to be triggered by other events, e.g.
package or configuration updates, using an appropriately named "schedule".

If
.B snapperoo
is invoked with no arguments then the schedule name takes the default value of
"manual".
This allows easy manual snapshotting, if desired.

.SH SYSTEMD

Templated Systemd units are included for scheduling time based snapshots using
Systemd.
Schedules are limited to time specifications that are supported
by \fIOnCalendar=\fR, see
.BR systemd.timer (5)
and
.BR systemd.time (7).

These timers may be enabled using the command:
.PP
.nf
.RS
systemctl enable snapperoo@weekly.timer
systemctl enable snapperoo@monthly.timer
.RE
.fi
.PP
This would allow weekly and monthly snapshots to be taken.

.SH EXAMPLES
Trigger "weekly" snapshotting and rotation:
.PP
.nf
.RS
snapperoo weekly
.RE
.fi
.PP
In order to ensure snapshotting functions as expected, this command should be
called once per week by the job scheduling system of choice.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snapperoo (5),
.BR btrfs-subvolume (8),
.BR systemd.timer (5),
.BR systemd.time (7)
